21933113	Models to predict intestinal absorption of therapeutic peptides and proteins.	Prediction of human intestinal absorption is a major goal in the design, optimization, and selection of drugs intended for oral delivery, in particular proteins, which possess intrinsic poor transport across intestinal epithelium. There are various techniques currently employed to evaluate the extension of protein absorption in the different phases of drug discovery and development. Screening protocols to evaluate protein absorption include a range of preclinical methodologies like in silico, in vitro, in situ, ex vivo and in vivo. It is the careful and critical use of these techniques that can help to identify drug candidates, which most probably will be well absorbed from the human intestinal tract. It is well recognized that the human intestinal permeability cannot be accurately predicted based on a single preclinical method. However, the present social and scientific concerns about the animal well care as well as the pharmaceutical industries need for rapid, cheap and reliable models predicting bioavailability give reasons for using methods providing an appropriate correlation between results of in vivo and in vitro drug absorption. The aim of this review is to describe and compare in silico, in vitro, in situ, ex vivo and in vivo methods used to predict human intestinal absorption, giving a special attention to the intestinal absorption of therapeutic peptides and proteins.
22006095	Serotonin receptor 2A (HTR2A) gene polymorphism predicts treatment response to venlafaxine XR in generalized anxiety disorder.	Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a chronic psychiatric disorder with significant morbidity and mortality. Antidepressant drugs are the preferred choice for treatment; however, treatment response is often variable. Several studies in major depression have implicated a role of the serotonin receptor gene (HTR2A) in treatment response to antidepressants. We tested the hypothesis that the genetic polymorphism rs7997012 in the HTR2A gene predicts treatment outcome in GAD patients treated with venlafaxine XR. Treatment response was assessed in 156 patients that participated in a 6-month open-label clinical trial of venlafaxine XR for GAD. Primary analysis included Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) reduction at 6 months. Secondary outcome measure was the Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) score at 6 months. Genotype and allele frequencies were compared between groups using χ(2) contingency analysis. The frequency of the G-allele differed significantly between responders (70%) and nonresponders (56%) at 6 months (P=0.05) using the HAM-A scale as outcome measure. Similarly, using the CGI-I as outcome, the G-allele was significantly associated with improvement (P=0.01). Assuming a dominant effect of the G-allele, improvement differed significantly between groups (P=0.001, odds ratio=4.72). Similar trends were observed for remission although not statistically significant. We show for the first time a pharmacogenetic effect of the HTR2A rs7997012 variant in anxiety disorders, suggesting that pharmacogenetic effects cross diagnostic categories. Our data document that individuals with the HTR2A rs7997012 single nucleotide polymorphism G-allele have better treatment outcome over time. Future studies with larger sample sizes are necessary to further characterize this effect in treatment response to antidepressants in GAD.
22056334	Pollutant concentrations in placenta.	Unborn children are exposed to environmental pollutants via the placenta, and there is a causal relationship between maternal intake of pollutants and fetal exposure. Placental examination is an effective way for acquiring data for estimating fetal exposure. We analyzed the concentrations of 104 congeners of persistent organic pollutants, seven organotin compounds, five heavy metals, and methylmercury in 130 randomly selected placentas. Additionally, we examined similarities between pollutant concentrations by analyzing correlations between their placental concentrations. Our results yield new information for conducting contaminant risk assessments for the prenatal period. Out of the 117 individual persistent organic pollutants or metals assayed, 46 could be detected in more than half of the placentas. Moreover, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE) was found in all placentas. The data indicates that fetal exposure to dioxins and furans (PCDD/Fs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), p,p'-DDE, and methylmercury depends on the mother's parity, and age. We also conclude that sources of the above four pollutants are similar but differ from the sources of polybrominated diphenyl ethers.
22079313	Fish consumption during child bearing age: a quantitative risk-benefit analysis on neurodevelopment.	The fish ingredient N3-docosahexaenoic acid 22:6 n-3 (DHA) stimulates brain development. On the other hand methylmercury (MeHg) in fish disturbs the developing central nervous system. In this Context the IQ score in children is considered as an aggregate measure of in utero brain development. To determine the effect of DHA exposure on prenatal neurodevelopment the maternal DHA intake during pregnancy was compared with its epidemiologically observed effect on the IQ score of children. For MeHg the maternal intake was converted into its accumulation in the maternal body. The maternal body burden then was compared with its epidemiologically observed relationship with the IQ score. Taking the MeHg and DHA content of 33 fish species the net effect of these compounds on the IQ score was quantified. For most fish species the adverse effect of MeHg on the IQ score exceeded the beneficial effect of DHA. In the case of long-living predators a negative effect up to 10 points on the IQ score was found. The results of this study indicate that food interventions aiming at the beneficial effects of fish consumption should focus on fish species with a high DHA content, while avoiding fish species with a high MeHg content.
22082827	Tissues distribution of heavy metals and erythrocytes antioxidant status in rats exposed to Nigerian bonny light crude oil.	The harmful effects of folkloric uses of Nigerian bonny light crude oil (BLCO) in ailments management may outweigh the expected beneficial effects. We investigated the levels of heavy metal concentrations in the tissues as well as the effect of BLCO on the antioxidant status of erythrocytes of rats after oral exposure to 0, 200 and 800 mg/kg BLCO for 7 days. Analysis of heavy metal concentrations in BLCO showed that Zn > Fe > Pb > Cu > Ni. The trend of accumulation of the metals in the tissues is blood-Fe > Pb >Zn whereas Cu and Ni levels were not affected; Liver-Ni > Zn > Fe > Cu > Pb and Testes-Ni > Cu > Pb > Zn > Fe. The order of concentration of the metals in the tissues is as follows: iron-blood > liver > testes; zinc-liver > blood > testes; lead-blood > liver > testes; copper-testes > liver > blood; nickel-liver > testes > blood. Activities of the antioxidant enzymes of erythrocytes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione S-transferase and glutathione peroxidase increased significantly in a dose-dependent manner with significant elevation in hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde levels, whereas glutathione level was not significantly decreased in BLCO-treated animals. Collectively, the results showed that BLCO induces oxidative damage to erythrocytes of rats.
22158333	Pharmacogenetic predictors for EGFR-inhibitor-associated skin toxicity.	The aim of this study was to investigate pharmacogenetic determinants of skin rash associated with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor treatment. A total of 109 prospectively sampled cancer patients, receiving the first treatment with an EGFR inhibitor, were genotyped for functional EGFR polymorphisms and tagging variants in genes involved in receptor downstream signaling. Skin rash was absent in 26 (23.9%) patients and associated with shorter overall survival compared with patients presenting skin rash (P=0.005). The EGFR polymorphisms, 497G/A (P=0.008), and the haplotypes of the promoter variants, EGFR-216G/T and -191C/A (P=0.029), were associated with the appearance of skin rash. In addition, a common haplotype in the PIK3CA gene was associated with skin rash (P=0.045) and overall survival (P=0.009). In conclusion, genetic variation within the EGFR gene and its downstream signaling partner PIK3CA might predict EGFR-inhibitor-related skin rash.
22236017	Volatile compound in cut and un-cut flowers of tetraploid Freesia hybrida.	The flower volatile compounds (FVCs) of two tetraploid Freesia hybrida (pink-yellow and yellow) cultivars and their cut flowers were analysed by headspace solid-phase microextraction combined with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Twelve FVCs were identified in the pink-yellow cultivar, with linalool as the major compound; 30 FVCs were identified in the yellow cultivar, with linalool and terpineol as the two major compounds. The FVCs (>1%) of the two cut flower cultivars were very similar to that of the un-cut flowers, and no significant difference was observed.
22236093	Volatile organic compounds of Schenella pityophilus.	Volatile organic compounds of Schenella pityophilus have been identified via solid-phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis. Ten compounds have been identified, in which 3-methylthio-1-propene was the most significant component. Some other components were previously identified in Tuber aestivum and Tuber melanosporum.
22239172	Diclavatol and tetronic acids from Penicillium griseoroseum.	In our continuous studies on the chemistry of the endophytic fungus Penicillium griseoroseum, an endophyte isolated from fruits of Coffea arabica, we isolated clavatol, a dimethylated tetraketide, and its dimer which appears to be a novel natural compound. The studies also resulted in the identification of two known tetronic acids, viridicatic acid and terrestric acid, found in ethyl acetate and n-butanol extracts. Spectroscopic studies using 1-D and 2-D NMR and MS/MS analysis were performed to determine the structures of these compounds, first reported by this Penicillium. Two other tetronic acids congeners were identified through HPLC/MS/MS studies, based on fragmentation pattern of ions produced from ionised tetronic acids, and UV light absorptions.
22241176	A simple detection system for adenovirus receptor expression using a telomerase-specific replication-competent adenovirus.	Adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) is frequently used as an effective vector for induction of therapeutic transgenes in cancer gene therapy or of tumor cell lysis in oncolytic virotherapy. Ad5 can infect target cells through binding with the coxsackie and adenovirus receptor (CAR). Thus, the infectious ability of Ad5-based vectors depends on the CAR expression level in target cells. There are conventional methods to evaluate the CAR expression level in human target cells, including flow cytometry, western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Here, we show a simple system for detection and assessment of functional CAR expression in human tumor cells, using the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing telomerase-specific replication-competent adenovirus OBP-401. OBP-401 infection induced detectable GFP expression in CAR-expressing tumor cells, but not in CAR-negative tumor cells, nor in CAR-positive normal fibroblasts, 24 h after infection. OBP-401-mediated GFP expression was significantly associated with CAR expression in tumor cells. OBP-401 infection detected tumor cells with low CAR expression more efficiently than conventional methods. OBP-401 also distinguished CAR-positive tumor tissues from CAR-negative tumor and normal tissues in biopsy samples. These results suggest that GFP-expressing telomerase-specific replication-competent adenovirus is a very potent diagnostic tool for assessment of functional CAR expression in tumor cells for Ad5-based antitumor therapy.
22273350	Chemical composition and antioxidant activity of the essential oil of Tabernaemontana catharinensis A. DC. leaves.	The essential oils obtained by hydrodistillation from the leaves of Tabernaemontana catharinensis had their composition analysed by GC-MS. A total of 18 substances were identified, consisting of a complex mixture of sesquiterpenes (83.52%), monoterpenes (5.46%) and triterpenes (4.56%). The main components in the oil were β-caryophyllene (56.87%), α-cadinol (12.52%), 8S,13-cedran-diol (5.41%), α-terpineol (3.99%), β-eudesmol (2.54%), caryophyllene oxide (2.51%) and ethyl iso-allocholate (2.03%) along with β-cubebene, γ-cadinene, cubenol, 1,8-cineol, o-cymene, curcumenol, spathulenol, friedeline and β-sitosterol as minor constituents. An antioxidant property was tested with the oil obtained by means of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl assay; the oil presented interesting radical scavenging activity. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study of the composition and antioxidant activity of essential oil from the T. catharinensis collected from Brazil.
22301814	Green tea extract alleviates arsenic-induced biochemical toxicity and lipid peroxidation in rats.	The present work was undertaken to evaluate the protective effect of an aqueous extract of green tea (GT, Camellia sinensis) leaves against arsenic (NaAsO2)-induced biochemical toxicity and lipid peroxidation production in experimental rats. The treatment with arsenic exhibited a significant increase in some serum hepatic and renal biochemical parameters (alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, total protein, albumin, bilirubin, cholesterol, urea and creatinine). But the co-administration of GT has increased the level of plasmatic concentration of biochemical parameters. Exposure of rats to arsenic caused also a significant increase in liver, kidney and testicular thiobarbituric acid reactive substances compared to control. However, the co-administration of GT was effective in reducing its level. To conclude, our data suggest that arsenic exposure enhanced an oxidative stress by disturbing the tissue antioxidant defense system, but the GT co-administration alleviates the toxicity induced by arsenic exposure.
22301815	Changes in carbohydrate metabolism, oxidative stress and loss of cortisol secretion in adrenocortica l cells of Oreochromis niloticus exposed in vitro to endosulfan.	The effects of endosulfan, an organochlorine pesticide regularly used in Niger Delta ecological zone, were examined and also its effects on various biochemical parameters in the serum of Oreochromis niloticus, a dominant fish species in Nigeria. One hundred and fifty juveniles of O. niloticus were used for the toxicity study. Lethal concentration of 50% mortality of sample (LC50) was determined using semi-static method. From the result of the LC50 determination, lower concentrations of endosulfan were prepared for sublethal test. Five fish per test concentration in three replicates were exposed to varying concentrations of endosulfan. Glucose level and the enzyme activities were measured spectrophotometrically at the end of 28 days of exposure. Glucose levels and glutathione-S-transferase activities were significantly (p < 0.05) higher than the control and the concentrations increased with increasing concentration of the toxicant and exposure duration. Cortisol secretion was significantly (p = 0.05) lower in the treated fish than the control. These findings indicated that endosulfan altered all the investigated parameters, which is an indication of their suitability as markers for fish and other aquatic organism toxicity study.
22312035	Determination of aflatoxin M1 in milk by high-performance liquid chromatography in Mashhad (north east of Iran).	The aim of this study was to evaluate aflatoxin M1 (AFM1) contamination in milk samples in Mashhad in Iran. A total of 60 milk samples were collected from retail stores of five regions in June 2011. The occurrence and concentration range of AFM1 in the samples were investigated by high-performance liquid chromatography method. AFM1 was found in 100% of the examined milk samples by average concentration of 16.16 ng/L and the contamination level ranging between 2 and 64 ng/L. The concentration of AFM1 in all the samples was lower than the Iranian national standard and Food and Drug Administration limit (500 ng/L), and only in one (1.6%) of the samples, the concentration of AFM1 was greater than the maximum tolerance limit (50 ng/L) accepted by European Union and Codex Alimentarius Commission. Statistical evaluation showed no significant difference between the mean concentrations of AFM1 in milk samples taken from different regions (p > 0.05).
22313530	CNS distribution of metabotropic glutamate 2 and 3 receptors: transgenic mice and [³H]LY459477 autoradiography.	Group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor agonists were efficacious in randomized clinical research trials for schizophrenia and generalized anxiety disorder. The regional quantification of mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors remains unknown. A selective and structurally novel mGlu(2/3) receptor agonist, 2-amino-4-fluorobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY459477) was tritiated and the distribution of mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors was studied in transgenic mice lacking either mGlu(2), mGlu(3) or both receptors. LY459477 is an agonist with 1-2 nM potency for rodent and human mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors. The functional selectivity of LY459477 was demonstrated by over 640-fold selectivity and the displacement binding selectivity was greater than 320-fold for all glutamate receptors except mGlu(6) (∼230-fold). More than 1000-fold selectivity was demonstrated for all non-glutamate receptors known to be targeted by antipsychotic drugs. Like atypical antipsychotic drugs, LY459477 reversed in vitro electrophysiological effects of a serotonergic hallucinogen and behavioral effects of phencyclidine or amphetamine. There was virtually no binding of [(3)H]LY459477 to any brain region in mice with a deletion of both mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors. Regions enriched in mGlu(2) receptors included the medial prefrontal cortex, select hippocampal regions, the medial mammillary nucleus, the medial habenula, and the cerebellar granular cell layer. Regions enriched in mGlu(3) receptors were the dorsolateral entorhinal cortex, the hippocampal CA1 field, the piriform cortex, the substantia nigra, the thalamic reticular nucleus, and primary sensory thalamic nuclei. These findings suggest [(3)H]LY459477 should be a useful tool to further define the role of mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors throughout the brain with respect to major neuropsychiatric syndromes. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
22335586	Formulation, in vitro and in vivo evaluation of transdermal patches containing risperidone.	The efficacy of oral risperidone treatment in prevention of schizophrenia is well known. However, oral side effects and patient compliance is always a problem for schizophrenics. In this study, risperidone was formulated into matrix transdermal patches to overcome these problems. The formulation factors for such patches, including eudragit RL 100 and eudragit RS 100 as matrix forming polymers, olive oil, groundnut oil and jojoba oil in different concentrations as enhancers and amount of drug loaded were investigated. The transdermal patches containing risperidone were prepared by solvent casting method and characterized for physicochemical and in vitro permeation studies through excised rat skin. Among the tested preparations, formulations with 20% risperidone, 3:2 ERL 100 and ERS 100 as polymers, mixture of olive oil and jojoba oil as enhancer, exhibited greatest cumulative amount of drug permeated (1.87 ± 0.09 mg/cm(2)) in 72 h, so batch ROJ was concluded as optimized formulation and assessed for pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic and skin irritation potential. The pharmacokinetic characteristics of the optimized risperidone patch were determined using rabbits, while orally administered risperidone in solution was used for comparison. The calculated relative bioavailability of risperidone transdermal patch was 115.20% with prolonged release of drug. Neuroleptic efficacy of transdermal formulation was assessed by rota-rod and grip test in comparison with control and marketed oral formulations with no skin irritation. This suggests the transdermal application of risperidone holds promise for improved bioavailability and better management of schizophrenia in long-term basis.
22342985	Defining "epileptogenesis" and identifying "antiepileptogenic targets" in animal models of acquired temporal lobe epilepsy is not as simple as it might seem.	The "latent period" between brain injury and clinical epilepsy is widely regarded to be a seizure-free, pre-epileptic state during which a time-consuming cascade of molecular events and structural changes gradually mediates the process of "epileptogenesis." The concept of the "latent period" as the duration of "epileptogenesis" implies that epilepsy is not an immediate result of brain injury, and that anti-epileptogenic strategies need to target delayed secondary mechanisms that develop sometime after an initial injury. However, depth recordings made directly from the dentate granule cell layers in awake rats after convulsive status epilepticus-induced injury have now shown that whenever perforant pathway stimulation-induced status epilepticus produces extensive hilar neuron loss and entorhinal cortical injury, hyperexcitable granule cells immediately generate spontaneous epileptiform discharges and focal or generalized behavioral seizures. This indicates that hippocampal injury caused by convulsive status epilepticus is immediately epileptogenic and that hippocampal epileptogenesis requires no delayed secondary mechanism. When latent periods do exist after injury, we hypothesize that less extensive cell loss causes an extended period during which initially subclinical focal seizures gradually increase in duration to produce the first clinical seizure. Thus, the "latent period" is suggested to be a state of "epileptic maturation," rather than a prolonged period of "epileptogenesis," and therefore the antiepileptogenic therapeutic window may only remain open during the first week after injury, when some delayed cell death may still be preventable. Following the perhaps unavoidable development of the first focal seizures ("epileptogenesis"), the most fruitful therapeutic strategy may be to interrupt the process of "epileptic maturation," thereby keeping focal seizures focal. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'New Targets and Approaches to the Treatment of Epilepsy'.
22348222	Chemical composition and antibacterial activity of the volatile oil from seeds of Artemisia annua L. from Iran.	The composition of essential oil of the seeds of Artemisia annua L. was analysed by GC-MS. Overall, 16 volatile components were identified on the basis of their mass spectra characteristics and retention indices representing 95.5% of the total oil. Trans-3(10)-caren-4-ol (22.3%), artemisia ketone (18.6%), 1,8-cineole (14.9%), δ-selinene (13.0%) and α-pinene (8.2%) were the major compounds. Oxygenated monoterpenes were the main compounds with 51.6% followed by sesquiterpene hydrocarbons (13.3%), monoterpene hydrocarbons (9.9%) and other compounds (8.3%). The essential oil was highly active against Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis.
22348951	Exposure to contaminants exacerbates oxidative stress in amphipod Monoporeia affinis subjected to fluctuating hypoxia.	Fitness and survival of an organism depend on its ability to mount a successful stress response when challenged by exposure to damaging agents. We hypothesized that co-exposure to contaminants may exacerbate oxidative stress in hypoxia-challenged benthic animals compromising their ability to recover upon reoxygenation. This was tested using the amphipod Monoporeia affinis exposed to hypoxia followed by reoxygenation in sediments collected in polluted and pristine areas. In both sediment types, oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) and antioxidant enzyme activities [superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT)] increased during hypoxia, suggesting that M. affinis has a strategy of preparation for oxidative stress that facilitates recovery after a hypoxic episode. Exposure to contaminants altered this anticipatory response as indicated by higher baselines of ORAC and SOD during hypoxia and no response upon reoxygenation. This coincided with significantly elevated oxidative damage evidenced by a marked reduction in glutathione redox status (ratio of reduced GSH/oxidized GSSG) and an increase in lipid peroxidation (TBARS levels). Moreover, RNA:DNA ratio, a proxy for protein synthetic activity, decreased in concert with increased TBARS, indicating a linkage between oxidative damage and fitness. Finally, inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in animals exposed to contaminated sediments suggested a neurotoxic impact, whereas significant correlations between AChE and oxidative biomarkers may indicate connections with redox state regulation. The oxidative responses in pristine sediments suggested a typical scenario of ROS production and removal, with no apparent oxidative damage. By contrast, co-exposure to contaminants caused greater increase in antioxidants, lipid peroxidation, and slowed recovery from hypoxia as indicated by CAT, GSH/GSSG, TBARS and AChE responses. These results support the hypothesized potential of xenobiotics to hamper ability of animals to cope with fluctuating hypoxia. They also emphasize the importance of understanding interactions between antioxidant responses to different stressors and physiological mechanisms of oxidative damage.
22352409	Simultaneous determination of glucoraphanin and sulforaphane in Brassica oleracea seeds by high-performance liquid chromatography with evaporative light-scattering detector.	In this article, a novel and efficient analysis method is described to simultaneously and quantitatively determine glucoraphanin and its major degradation product sulforaphane by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with an evaporative light-scattering detector (ELSD). This method was validated according to the regulatory guidelines with respect to precision, accuracy and linearity. The HPLC-ELSD method was successfully used to assess the contents of glucoraphanin and sulforaphane in varieties of Brassica oleracea seeds. The developed analytical method not only avoids the underestimation of total glucoraphanin content, but also provides a reduction in analysis time and good efficiency and sensitivity compared to with conventional HPLC methods.
22354902	RETRACTED: Detection of acute toxicity test of crude diesel oil on Beluga, Huso huso.	RETRACTED.
22360570	The PP1 binding code: a molecular-lego strategy that governs specificity.	Ser/Thr protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is a single-domain hub protein with nearly 200 validated interactors in vertebrates. PP1-interacting proteins (PIPs) are ubiquitously expressed but show an exceptional diversity in brain, testis and white blood cells. The binding of PIPs is mainly mediated by short motifs that dock to surface grooves of PP1. Although PIPs often contain variants of the same PP1 binding motifs, they differ in the number and combination of docking sites. This molecular-lego strategy for binding to PP1 creates holoenzymes with unique properties. The PP1 binding code can be described as specific, universal, degenerate, nonexclusive and dynamic. PIPs control associated PP1 by interference with substrate recruitment or access to the active site. In addition, some PIPs have a subcellular targeting domain that promotes dephosphorylation by increasing the local concentration of PP1. The diversity of the PP1 interactome and the properties of the PP1 binding code account for the exquisite specificity of PP1 in vivo.
22364642	Serratin a new metabolite obtained from Serratia marcescens, a bacterium isolated from the microflora associated with banana plantations.	When cultures of Serratia marcescens, an enterobacteria isolated from the microflora associated with banana plantations incubated at 27°C in a yeast-calcium carbonate-dextrose solid medium (10 g of yeast extract, 20 g dextrose, 15 g bacteriological agar, 20 g calcium carbonate and 1000 mL distilled water) were extracted with chloroform and purified by column chromatography, we obtained a new colourless bacterial metabolite which according to spectroscopic data proved to be serratin.
22370640	MTBP suppresses cell migration and filopodia formation by inhibiting ACTN4.	Murine double minute (MDM2) binding protein (MTBP) has been implicated in cancer progression. Here, we demonstrate one mechanism by which MTBP inhibits cancer metastasis. Overexpression of MTBP in human osteosarcoma cell lines lacking wild-type p53 did not alter primary tumor growth in mice, but significantly inhibited metastases. MTBP downregulation increased the migratory potential of MDM2(-/-)p53(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts, suggesting that MTBP inhibited cell migration independently of the Mdm2-p53 pathway. Co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometric analysis identified alpha-actinin-4 (ACTN4) as an MTBP-interacting protein. Endogenous MTBP interacted with and partially colocalized with ACTN4. MTBP overexpression inhibited cell migration and filopodia formation mediated by ACTN4. Increased cell migration by MTBP downregulation was inhibited by concomitant downregulation of ACTN4. MTBP also inhibited ACTN4-mediated F-actin bundling. We furthermore demonstrated that nuclear localization of MTBP was dispensable for inhibiting ACTN4-mediated cell migration and filopodia formation. Thus, MTBP suppresses cell migration, at least partially, by inhibiting ACTN4 function. Our study not only provides a mechanism of metastasis suppression by MTBP, but also suggests MTBP as a potential biomarker for cancer progression.
22372659	Phytochemical composition of polar fraction of Stachys germanica L. subsp. salviifolia (Ten.) Gams, a typical plant of Majella National Park.	In this study, we report the isolation and identification of several compounds present in the polar fraction of Stachys germanica L. subsp. salviifolia (Ten.) Gams, collected in the protected area of Majella National Park. In particular, we have isolated and identified harpagide, 7-β-hydroxy-harpagide, ajugol, 5-allosyloxy-aucubin, verbascoside and, for the first time in this genus, arbutin.
22372865	Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evaluation of floating microspheres of metformin hydrochloride.	Metformin hydrochloride (MH), a biguanide antidiabetic, is the drug of choice in obese patients. It is well absorbed from the upper part of gastrointestinal tract and has oral bioavailability of 50% to 60%. The objective of this study was to formulate MH into floating microspheres in order to increase its residence time at the site of absorption and thus improve its bioavailability; and to extend the duration of action along with possibilities of dose reduction. Microspheres were prepared by emulsion solvent evaporation method and evaluated for particle size, entrapment efficiency, buoyancy, and in vitro release; and further characterized by powder X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and differential scanning calorimetry. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evaluation of selected formulation was carried out in male Wistar diabetic rats. The data was statistically analyzed by unpaired t-test. A 3.5-fold increase in relative bioavailability was observed. The prolongation of half-life (t(1/2)) from 4.5 ± 2.41 h to 14.12 ± 4.81 h indicated extended duration of action. Oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was analyzed by one-way analysis of variance followed by Dunnet multiple comparison test, a significant decrease (p < 0.05) in the blood glucose levels was observed when formulations were compared with control rats. Hence, MH floating microspheres were tested at 50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg body weight, OGTT data showed nonsignificant difference (p >0.05). In conclusion, an effective oral antidiabetics treatment can be achieved by formulating MH into floating microspheres which results in increase in bioavailability along with extended duration of action resulting in possible reduction in dose.
22381584	Pharmacological evidence of functional inhibitory metabotrophic glutamate receptors on mouse arousal-related cholinergic laterodorsal tegmental neurons.	Cholinergic neurons of the pontine laterodorsal tegmentum (LDT) are importantly involved in neurobiological mechanisms governing states of arousal such as sleep and wakefulness as well as other appetitive behaviors, such as drug-seeking. Accordingly, mechanisms controlling their excitability are important to elucidate if we are to understand how these LDT neurons generate arousal states. Glutamate mediates the vast majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the vertebrate CNS and while presence of glutamate input in the LDT has been shown and ionotropic responses to glutamate have been reported in the LDT, characterization of metabotropic responses is lacking. Therefore, electrophysiological responses and changes in levels of intracellular Ca(2+) in mouse cholinergic LDT neurons following application of specific mGluR agonists and antagonists were examined. Unexpectedly, both the mGluR(5)specific agonist, CHPG, and the group II mGluR (mGlu(2/3)) agonist, LY379268 (LY), induced a TTX-insensitive outward current/hyperpolarization. Both outward currents were significantly reduced by the mGluR antagonist MCPG and the CHPG-induced current was blocked by the specific mGluR(5) antagonist MTEP. Concurrent Ca(2+)imaging revealed that while CHPG actions did include release of Ca(2+) from CPA/thapsigargin-sensitive intracellular stores, actions of LY did not. Both CHPG- and LY-induced outward currents were mediated by a TEA-sensitive potassium conductance. The large-conductance, Ca(2+)-dependent potassium (BK) channel blocker, iberiotoxin, attenuated CHPG actions. Consistent with actions on the BK conductance, CHPG enhanced the amplitude of the fast component of the after hyperpolarizing potential, concurrent with a reduction in the firing rate. We conclude that stimulation of mGluR(5) and group II (mGluR(2/3)) elicits postsynaptically-mediated outward currents/hyperpolarizations in cholinergic LDT neurons. Effects of glutamatergic input would be, thus, expected not only to be excitation via stimulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors and mGluR(1), but also inhibition via actions at mGluR(5) and mGluR(2/3) on these neurons. As these two processes counteract each other, these surprising findings necessitate revision of predictions regarding the net level of excitation generated by glutamate input to cholinergic LDT cells and, by extension, the functional outcome of glutamate transmission on processes which these neurons regulate. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
22391562	A potent Chk1 inhibitor is selectively cytotoxic in melanomas with high levels of replicative stress.	There are few effective treatments for metastatic melanoma. Checkpoint kinase 1 (Chk1) inhibitors are being trialled for their efficacy in enhancing conventional chemotherapeutic agents, but their effectiveness as single agents is not known. We have examined the effectiveness of two novel Chk1 selective inhibitors, AR323 and AR678, in a panel of melanoma cell lines and normal cell types. We demonstrate that these drugs display single-agent activity, with IC50s in the low nanomolar range. The drugs produce cytotoxic effects in cell lines that are most sensitive to these drugs, whereas normal cells are only sensitive to these drugs at the higher concentrations where they have cytostatic activity. The cytotoxic effect is the consequence of inhibition of S-phase Chk1, which drives cells prematurely from late S phase into an aberrant mitosis and results in either failure of cytokinesis or cell death through an apoptotic mechanism. The sensitivity to the Chk1 inhibitors was correlated with the level of endogenous DNA damage indicating replicative stress. Chk1 inhibitors are viable single-agent therapies that target melanoma cells with high levels of endogenous DNA damage. This sensitivity suggests that Chk1 is a critical component of an adaptation to replicative stress in these cells. It also suggests that markers of DNA damage may be useful in identifying the melanomas and potentially other tumour types that are more likely to be sensitive to Chk1 inhibitors as single agents.
22393914	Development and characterization of coated-microparticles based on whey protein/alginate using the Encapsulator device.	The aim of this study is to prepare whey protein (WP)-based microparticles (MP) using the Encapsulator(®) device. The viscosity dependence of the extrusion device required to mix WP with a food-grade and less viscous polymer. Mixed WP/ALG MP were obtained with the optimized WP/alginate (ALG) ratio (62/38). These particles were further coated with WP or ALG using non-traumatic and solvent-free coating process developed in this study. Size and morphology of coated and uncoated MP were determined. Then, swelling and degradation (WP release) of formulations were investigated in pH 1.2 and 7.5 buffers and in simulated gastric and intestinal fluids (SGF, SIF) and compared to pure ALG and pure WP particle behaviours. At pH 1.2, pure ALG shrank and pure WP swelled, whereas the sizes of mixed WP/ALG matrix were stable. In SGF, WP/ALG MP resisted to pepsin degradation compare to pure WP particles due to ALG shrinkage which limited pepsin diffusion within particles. Coating addition with WP or ALG slowed down pepsin degradation. At pH 7.5, WP/ALG particles were rapidly degraded due to ALG sensitivity but the addition of a WP coating limited effectively the swelling and the degradation of MP. In SIF, pancreatin accelerated MP degradation but ALG-coated MP exhibited interesting robustness. These results confirmed the interest and the feasibility to produce coated WP-based MP which could be a potential orally controlled release drug delivery system.
22400496	Secondary metabolites from Marchantia paleacea calluses and their allelopathic effects on Arabidopsis seed growth.	Rapid-growth Marchantia paleacea calluses were induced on MSK2 medium through surface sterilisation of the capsula. Ten known compounds including two steroids (1-2), six bibenzyls (3, 5-9), a flavonoid (10), and a terpenoid (4) were isolated from these calluses. The allelopathic effect of the six bibenzyls was assessed in Arabidopsis thaliana. Results revealed that bibenzyls could inhibit seedling growth in a dose-dependent manner.
22401710	Preparation and in vitro/in vivo evaluation of a ketoprofen orally disintegrating/sustained release tablet.	Context: Orally disintegrating tablets (ODTs) with sustained release profiles are a new generation of ODTs called orally disintegrating/sustained release tablets (ODSRTs), which are convenient in use and able to slowly release drugs to maintain effective blood concentrations over a prolonged period of time. Ketoprofen, one of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, is an ideal model drug for ODSRTs. Methods: We designed a simple two-step process to develop novel ketoprofen orally disintegrating/sustained release tablets (KODSRTs). Firstly, sustained release ketoprofen fine granules were developed by spray drying the aqueous dispersions composed of Eudragit RS-30D, Starch 1500 and PEG 6000. The optimal parameters of spray drying were 100°C for inlet air temperature and 1.5 mL/min for feed rate. Subsequently, the obtained granules were directly compressed into KODSRTs after mixing with lactose, mannitol and a superdisintegrant, crosslinked polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVPP). The characteristics of KODSRTs, especially their potential for extended drug release, were evaluated. Results: Results of an in vitro release test demonstrated that KODSRTs could slowly release ketoprofen for 24 h after disintegrating within 30 s. Extended release properties of KODSRTs were decided by the ketoprofen sustained release fine granules in tablets. Besides, the disintegration time of KODSRTs depended on the percentage of PVPP in tablets. In vivo pharmacokinetic studies in beagles also showed that KODSRTs possessed a significantly extended release profile compared with ketoprofen normal capsules. Conclusion: KODSRTs were successfully prepared using a simple two-step process: spray drying and direct compression.
22410775	The receptor tyrosine kinase Axl is an essential regulator of prostate cancer proliferation and tumor growth and represents a new therapeutic target.	Deregulation of the receptor tyrosine kinase Axl has been implicated in the progression of several human cancers. However, the role of Axl in prostate cancer remains poorly understood, and the therapeutic efficacy of Axl targeting remains untested. In this report we identified Axl as a new therapeutic target for prostate cancer. Axl is consistently overexpressed in prostate cancer cell lines and human prostate tumors. Interestingly, the blockage of Axl gene expression strongly inhibits proliferation, migration, invasion and tumor growth. Furthermore, inhibition of Axl expression by small interfering RNA regulates a transcriptional program of genes involved in cell survival, strikingly all connected to the nuclear factor-κB pathway. Additionally, blockage of Axl expression leads to inhibition of Akt, IKKα and IκBα phosphorylation, increasing IκBα expression and stability. Furthermore, induction of Akt phosphorylation by insulin-like growth factor 1 in Axl knockdown cells restores Akt activity and proliferation. Taken together, our results establish an unambiguous role for Axl in prostate cancer tumorigenesis with implications for prostate cancer treatment.
22410778	Oncogenic K-ras expression is associated with derangement of the cAMP/PKA pathway and forskolin-reversible alterations of mitochondrial dynamics and respiration.	The Warburg effect in cancer cells has been proposed to involve several mechanisms, including adaptation to hypoxia, oncogenes activation or loss of oncosuppressors and impaired mitochondrial function. In previous papers, it has been shown that K-ras transformed mouse cells are much more sensitive as compared with normal cells to glucose withdrawal (undergoing apoptosis) and present a high glycolytic rate and a strong reduction of mitochondrial complex I. Recent observations suggest that transformed cells have a derangement in the cyclic adenosine monophosphate/cAMP-dependent protein kinase (cAMP/PKA) pathway, which is known to regulate several mitochondrial functions. Herein, the derangement of the cAMP/PKA pathway and its impact on transformation-linked changes of mitochondrial functions is investigated. Exogenous stimulation of PKA activity, achieved by forskolin treatment, protected K-ras-transformed cells from apoptosis induced by glucose deprivation, enhanced complex I activity, intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels, mitochondrial fusion and decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. Several of these effects were almost completely prevented by inhibiting the PKA activity. Short-time treatment with compounds favoring mitochondrial fusion strongly decreased the cellular ROS levels especially in transformed cells. These findings support the notion that glucose shortage-induced apoptosis, specific of K-ras-transformed cells, is associated to a derangement of PKA signaling that leads to mitochondrial complex I decrease, reduction of ATP formation, prevalence of mitochondrial fission over fusion, and thereby opening new approaches for development of anticancer drugs.
22424051	A new chromone from the leaves of Melaleuca cajuputi Powell.	A new chromone, 5,7-dihydroxy-2 -(hydroxymethyl)-6,8-dimethyl-chromen-4-one, named melachromone, together with 12 known compounds, including chromones, anthraquinone, flavonoids, flavonoid glycosides, benzene derivatives, ellagic acids and terpenes, were isolated from the leaves of Melaleuca cajuputi Powell. Their structures were characterised by spectroscopic methods.
22426233	Functional selectivity induced by mGlu₄ receptor positive allosteric modulation and concomitant activation of Gq coupled receptors.	Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlus) are a group of Family C Seven Transmembrane Spanning Receptors (7TMRs) that play important roles in modulating signaling transduction, particularly within the central nervous system. mGlu(4) belongs to a subfamily of mGlus that is predominantly coupled to G(i/o) G proteins. We now report that the ubiquitous autacoid and neuromodulator, histamine, induces substantial glutamate-activated calcium mobilization in mGlu(4)-expressing cells, an effect which is observed in the absence of co-expressed chimeric G proteins. This strong induction of calcium signaling downstream of glutamate activation of mGlu(4) depends upon the presence of H(1) histamine receptors. Interestingly, the potentiating effect of histamine activation does not extend to other mGlu(4)-mediated signaling events downstream of G(i/o) G proteins, such as cAMP inhibition, suggesting that the presence of G(q) coupled receptors such as H(1) may bias normal mGlu(4)-mediated G(i/o) signaling events. When the activity induced by small molecule positive allosteric modulators of mGlu(4) is assessed, the potentiated signaling of mGlu(4) is further biased by histamine toward calcium-dependent pathways. These results suggest that G(i/o)-coupled mGlus may induce substantial, and potentially unexpected, calcium-mediated signaling events if stimulation occurs concomitantly with activation of G(q) receptors. Additionally, our results suggest that signaling induced by small molecule positive allosteric modulators may be substantially biased when G(q) receptors are co-activated. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
22429027	Two new triterpenoid saponins from the husks of Xanthoceras sorbifolia.	Two new oleanane triterpenoid saponins, xanthohuskisides A (1) and B (2), were isolated from the husks of Xanthoceras sorbifolia. The structures of these two compounds were established as 3-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl (1→6)-[β-D-glucopyranosyl (1→2)]-β-D-glucopyranosyl, 28-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl (1→6)-[α-L-rhamnopyranosyl (1→2)]-β-D-glucopyranosyl 16-deoxybarringtogenol C (1) and 3-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl (1→6)-[β-D-glucopyranosyl (1→2)]-β-D-glucopyranosyl, 28-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl (1→6)-β-D-glucopyranosyl 16-deoxybarringtogenol C (2), respectively, based on the analysis on their spectral data including NMR and HR-ESI-MS. The growth inhibitory activities of compounds 1 and 2 were assayed, and 2 showed moderate activity against U937 cell line with the IG(50) value of 82.85 ± 1.58 µM.
22430206	Yes and Lyn play a role in nuclear translocation of the epidermal growth factor receptor.	The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a central regulator of tumor progression in human cancers. Cetuximab is an anti-EGFR antibody that has been approved for use in oncology. Previously we investigated mechanisms of resistance to cetuximab using a model derived from the non-small cell lung cancer line NCI-H226. We demonstrated that cetuximab-resistant clones (Ctx(R)) had increased nuclear localization of the EGFR. This process was mediated by Src family kinases (SFKs), and nuclear EGFR had a role in resistance to cetuximab. To better understand SFK-mediated nuclear translocation of EGFR, we investigated which SFK member(s) controlled this process as well as the EGFR tyrosine residues that are involved. Analyses of mRNA and protein expression indicated upregulation of the SFK members Yes (v-Yes-1 yamaguchi sarcoma viral oncogene) and Lyn (v-yes-1 Yamaguchi sarcoma viral-related oncogene homolog) in all Ctx(R) clones. Further, immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that EGFR interacts with Yes and Lyn in Ctx(R) clones, but not in cetuximab-sensitive (Ctx(S)) parental cells. Using RNAi interference, we found that knockdown of either Yes or Lyn led to loss of EGFR translocation to the nucleus. Conversely, overexpression of Yes or Lyn in low nuclear EGFR-expressing Ctx(S) parental cells led to increased nuclear EGFR. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays confirmed nuclear EGFR complexes associated with the promoter of the known EGFR target genes B-Myb and iNOS. Further, all Ctx(R) clones exhibited upregulation of B-Myb and iNOS at the mRNA and protein levels. siRNAs directed at Yes or Lyn led to decreased binding of EGFR complexes to the B-Myb and iNOS promoters based on ChIP analyses. SFKs have been shown to phosphorylate EGFR on tyrosines 845 and 1101 (Y845 and Y1101), and mutation of Y1101, but not Y845, impaired nuclear entry of the EGFR. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that Yes and Lyn phosphorylate EGFR at Y1101, which influences EGFR nuclear translocation in this model of cetuximab resistance.
22438091	Effects of sinensetin on lipid metabolism in mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes.	Sinensetin is a rare polymethoxylated flavone found in certain citrus fruits. In this study, we investigated the effects of sinensetin on lipid metabolism in mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Sinensetin decreased the expression of sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP1c), suggesting its antiadipogeneic property via downreguation of SREBP1c. Also, sinensetin increased the phosphorylation of protein kinase A and hormone-sensitive lipase, indicating its lipolytic property via a cAMP-mediated signaling pathway. Moreover, sinensetin inhibited insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by decreasing the phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate and Akt. Furthermore, sinensetin increased the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase. It also upregulated mRNA expression of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1a, suggesting that sinensetin enhances fatty acid β-oxidation through the AMPK pathway. Taken together, these results suggest that sinensetin may have potential as a natural agent for prevention/improvement of obesity.
22438103	The marine alga Gelidium amansii promotes the development and complexity of neuronal cytoarchitecture.	Neurotrophic factors are vital not only to support neuronal development but also to protect mature neurons from atrophy in neurodegenerative diseases. As an effort to explore natural sources that possess neurotrophic activity, we screened common marine algae for their neuritogenic activity in the developing rat hippocampal neurons in culture. Of the 22 seaweed species examined, ethanol extracts of Gelidium amansii (GAE) exhibited potent neuritogenic activity, followed by Undaria pinnatifida and Sargassum fulvellum extracts. The effects of GAE were dose dependent with an optimum concentration of 15 µg/mL. The GAE significantly promoted the initial neuronal differentiation from the stage I into the stage II and increased the indices of axonal and dendritic development such as the length, the numbers of primary processes, and branching frequencies by a minimum of twofold compared with the vehicle control. These results show that marine algae are promising candidates for neurotrophic potentials.
22439867	New immunosuppressive cyclomyrsinol diterpenes from Euphorbia kopetdaghi Prokh.	Aceton: chloroform (1:2) extracts of the aerial parts of Euphorbia kopetdaghi Prokh. (Euphorbiaceae) were investigated for its diterpenoids and afforded three new five-membered ring, pentacyclic myrisinane polyester comprised of 3,5,10-O-triacetyl-8-O-isobutanoyl-14-O-benzoylcyclomyrsinol (1), 3,5,10,14-O-tetraacetyl-8-O-(2'-methyl butanoyl)-cyclomyrsinol (2) and 3,5,10,14-O-tetracetyl-8-O-isobutanoylcyclomyrsinol (3). The structures were elucidated based on (13)C- and (1)H-NMR as well as 2D-NMR, IR and different MS spectra and the immunomodulation activity for compound 1 was evaluated through lymphocyte proliferation assay, IL-2 assay, oxidative burst of phagocytic leukocytes and through their cytotoxicity on two cell lines. Compound 1 showed significant suppressive activity against phytohemagglutinin-activated T-cell proliferation with an IC(50) of 1.83 µg mL(-1), IL-2 suppressive activity with an IC(50) of 19.0 µg mL(-1) and oxidative burst suppressive activity with an IC(50) of 1.6 µg mL(-1) and ignorable cytotoxic effect on the CC-1 rat hepatocyte and 3T3-L1 mouse fibroblast cell-lines.
22440717	Molecular crosstalk between a chemical and a biological stressor and consequences on disease manifestation in rainbow trout.	The aim of the present study was to examine the molecular and organism reaction of rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss, to the combined impact of two environmental stressors. The two stressors were the myxozoan parasite, Tetracapsuloides bryosalmonae, which is the etiological agent of proliferative kidney disease (PKD) and a natural stressor to salmonid populations, and 17β-estradiol (E2) as prototype of estrogen-active chemical stressors in the aquatic environment. Both stressors, the parasite and estrogenic contaminants, co-exist in Swiss rivers and are discussed as factors contributing to the decline of Swiss brown trout populations over the last decades. Using a microarray approach contrasting parasite-infected and non-infected rainbow trout at low or high estrogen levels, it was observed that molecular response patterns under joint exposure differed from those to the single stressors. More specifically, three major response patterns were present: (i) expression responses of gene transcripts to one stressor are weakened by the presence of the second stressor; (ii) expression responses of gene transcripts to one stressor are enhanced by the presence of the second stressor; (iii) expression responses of gene transcripts at joint treatment are dominated by one of the two stressors. Organism-level responses to concurrent E2 and parasite treatment - assessed through measuring parasite loads in the fish host and cumulative mortalities of trout - were dominated by the pathogen, with no modulating influence of E2. The findings reveal function- and level-specific responses of rainbow trout to stressor combinations, which are only partly predictable from the response to the single stressors.
22443216	Intraspecific chemical variability of essential oil from leaves of Cupressus atlantica Gaussen, an endemic and endangered coniferous species in Morocco.	The composition of essential oils isolated from leaves of 11 natural populations of Cupressus atlantica, an endemic and endangered coniferous species from Morocco, was investigated by GC-MS. In total, 42 essential oil components were identified, accounting for 73.1-97.7% of the total oil. Monoterpene (25.2-84.9%) and sesquiterpene hydrocarbons (12.2-46.8%) were the principal subclasses of compounds, with α-pinene (15-65.4%), germacrene D (5.9-30.5%), δ-3-carene (2-16.6%) and γ-cadinene (1.3-9.8%) as the main constituents. The results of the oil composition were analysed by hierarchical cluster and principal component analysis that established three main groups of essential oils. These oils were differentiated by the content of the major constituents (α-pinene, germacrene D, δ-3-carene and γ-cadinene), geographical location and climatic characteristics.
22443683	The biogenesis of active protein phosphatase 2A holoenzymes: a tightly regulated process creating phosphatase specificity.	Protein phosphatase type 2A (PP2A) enzymes constitute a large family of Ser/Thr phosphatases with multiple functions in cellular signaling and physiology. The composition of heterotrimeric PP2A holoenzymes, resulting from the combinatorial assembly of a catalytic C subunit, a structural A subunit, and regulatory B-type subunit, provides the essential determinants for substrate specificity, subcellular targeting, and fine-tuning of phosphatase activity, largely explaining why PP2A is functionally involved in so many diverse physiological processes, sometimes in seemingly opposing ways. In this review, we highlight how PP2A holoenzyme biogenesis and enzymatic activity are controlled by a sophisticatedly coordinated network of five PP2A modulators, consisting of α4, phosphatase 2A phosphatase activator (PTPA), leucine carboxyl methyl transferase 1 (LCMT1), PP2A methyl esterase 1 (PME-1) and, potentially, target of rapamycin signaling pathway regulator-like 1 (TIPRL1), which serve to prevent promiscuous phosphatase activity until the holoenzyme is completely assembled. Likewise, these modulators may come into play when PP2A holoenzymes are disassembled following particular cellular stresses. Malfunctioning of these cellular control mechanisms contributes to human disease. The potential therapeutic benefits or pitfalls of interfering with these regulatory mechanisms will be briefly discussed.


